GIMP 1.2 - Hadjaha - New features          -*- text -*-

The following list tries to describe all the new features that are
already implemented or currently being worked on. I cannot
guarantee that I describe everything correctly, since for most
items I haven't read the code but only looked at the ChangeLog
entry. I can however guarantee that a few things are missing...


   [ Changes in versions 1.1.21 to 1.1.32 ]

   Bug fixes             We are getting ready for 1.2 ...

   [ Changes in version 1.1.20 ]

   Bug fixes             Squeezing, squashing, crushing them ....

   [ Changes in version 1.1.19 ]

   Bug fixes             The GIMP developers crew is working hard to
                         fix all known bugs. If you find a bug, please
                         check if it is still present in the latest
                         version. Then report it using the Bug Report
                         Form or send an email as described here.

   Installation dialog   A new much improved installation dialogs
                         guides you through the user-installation and
                         asks the user to set important values like
                         the tile_cache_size and the monitor
                         resolution.

   I18n of Script-Fu     Finally the UI of Script-Fu is fully
                         internationalized.

   [ Changes in version 1.1.18 ]

   Bug fixes             The GIMP developers crew is working hard to
                         fix all known bugs. If you find a bug, please
                         check if it is still present in the latest
                         version. Then report it using the Bug Report
                         Form or send an email as described here.

   [ Changes in version 1.1.17 ]

   Bug fixes             The latest versions shipped with broken
                         message catalogs that triggered a bug in
                         gtk+-1.2.6. This bug will be fixed in the
                         upcoming gtk+-1.2.7 and we have added a
                         workaround to prevent GIMP from crashing.
                         Lots of other bugs have been fixed too.

   LibGimp               We have started to document libgimp using
   documentation         gtk-doc. This should make it easier for
                         plug-in developers and will help them
                         especially to use all the new widgets and
                         convenience functions in libgimpui which make
                         the plug-ins look so nice.

   [ Changes in version 1.1.16 ]

   Bug fixes             The GIMP developers crew is working hard to
                         fix all known bugs. If you find a bug, please
                         check if it is still present in the latest
                         version. Then report it using the Bug Report
                         Form or send an email as described here.

   Localisation          The internationalisation of GIMP's UI is
                         pretty much complete, which means that the
                         strings are marked for translation. Now,
                         those strings have to be translated of
                         course. Check out the translation status.

   [ Changes in version 1.1.15 ]

   Arrival of the help   A first set of help pages for our new online
   pages                 help system was added. If you want to help
                         Olof and Karin with that task, contact
                         olof@gimp.org.

                         It is also now possible to use Netscape to
                         read the help pages, if you don't want to (or
                         can't) use the internal helpbrowser.

   Plugins overhaul      Several GTK wrappers had made their way into
                         The GIMP over the last years making live hard
                         for developers and pushing a bad (IMHO)
                         coding style. We are now trying to get rid of
                         those libraries like gpc (RIP), megawidget
                         and libgck.

                         Most plug-ins now use helpful widgets from
                         libgimpui, which give much nicer layout and
                         better functionality (pressing F1 for Help
                         works in most plug-in windows now).

   GAP Navigator         Working with GIMP Animations is getting more
                         comfortable with the new GAP VCR Naviagtor
                         which provides a view on your GAP animation
                         frames in the style of the L&C-dialog.

   [ Changes in version 1.1.14 ]

   Internationalization  I18n has been improved a lot lately. The core
                         is now fully marked for translation and the
                         plug-ins are following. Now what we need are
                         translators. Only very few languages are
                         supported by now.

   Dialog layouts        In an attempt to make the interface more
   unification           consistent, most plug-ins saw some small
                         changes to their dialog layout. You should
                         soon find the default buttons at the same
                         place in all dialogs.

   [ Changes in version 1.1.13 ]

   Not much              There were some problems with the 1.1.12
                         release, that made it necessary to release
                         1.1.13 only a day later.

   [ Changes in version 1.1.12 ]

   Script-Fu bug fixed   One of the most annoying bugs in the last
                         releases was fixed. Script-Fu scripts used to
                         crash the GIMP pretty regulary. Well, GDK
                         refcounting can be confusing...

   Memleaks plugged      With the help of memprof a whole bunch of
                         memleaks were found and lots of them plugged.

   Layer move speedups   Layer moving has been speed up by avoiding to
                         put each and every one-pixel move onto the
                         undo-stack.

   Multiple previews     The File Open dialog now allows to create
                         previews for multiple files at once. To
                         create previews for a whole directory, simply
                         select all files and press the Preview
                         button.

   Menu Reorganization   The core and plug-in menus were reorganized.
                         The new structure might take some time to get
                         used to, but it is more intuitive and
                         consistent.

   [ Changes in version 1.1.11 ]

   Bug fixes             The GIMP developers crew is working hard to
                         fix all known bugs. If you find a bug, please
                         check if it is still present in the latest
                         version. Then report it using the Bug Report
                         Form or send an email as described here.

   [ Changes in version 1.1.10 ]

   Intelligent Scissors  Finally Intelligent Scissors work again the
                         way they worked back in the old 0.54 days.
                         Hooray for Austin!!

   Undo History          the undo system was overworked and on the
                         surface a new dialog showed up showing a
                         history of the undoable steps performed on
                         the image. Very nice!

   Export                Finally The GIMP knows how to export files.
                         Or to be exact: it provides a way for
                         plug-ins to propagate their capabilities to
                         the core which will take care of opening a
                         dialog that proposes suitable conversion to
                         the user. These conversions are then
                         performed on a duplicate of the original
                         image.

   Help System           The GIMP now has a builtin help system.
                         Pressing F1 on whatever dialog starts the
                         helpbrowser on the related help-page. The
                         same works on a menu-entry. Olof and Karin
                         Kylander are already busy at writing the
                         documentation...

                         DnD was added to the helpbrowser so you can
                         now drag help to Netscape if you prefer
                         reading it there.

   Brush Pipe            Brush Pipes are now marked in the Brush
   indicators            Selection Dialog and the popup animates
                         through the pipe.

   Bug fixes             The GIMP developers crew is working hard to
                         fix all known bugs. If you find a bug, please
                         check that it is still present in the latest
                         version. Then report it using the Bug Report
                         Form or send an email as described here.

   [ New features in version 1.1.9 ]

   Enhanced pressure     Using a pressure sensitive device you can now
   support               control what is affected by the pressure.
                         This can be opacity, brush-size and color.

   New Path tool         A new path manipulation tool was added that
                         is in early development stage and aims to be
                         a replacement for the bezier tool combining
                         bezier, spline and iscissor paths.

   New Airbrush tool     A new airbrush is under development that
                         promises to give you a much more natural
                         airbrush feeling with extended input devices
                         (graphic tablets).

   Resizable toolbox     Got annoyed so often that those GIMP windows
                         just don't fit to the screen the way you like
                         them? Now you can come closer since the
                         toolbox is resizable. Would you like a
                         horizontal toolbox better?

   Navigation popup      In the lower right corner of the image window
                         you will now find a button that pops up a
                         very handy navigation window similar to the
                         one you can access through the menus.

   Indicators overhaul   The small area at the bottom of the toolbox
                         has seen a total rewrite. Now the gradient is
                         displayed as well and all the preview code is
                         in one generic widget that is reused in the
                         devices status too.

   Lotsa new plug-ins    The GIMPressionist was added to the
                         distribution and its author directly came up
                         with a new thing out of the Vidar-Labs:
                         SphereDesigner. Other new plug-ins include
                         ImageMap, GFlare, PyGimp (Python scripting
                         support), AlienMap2, Color Enhance and Warp.

   Deterministic         Deterministic colour dithering to arbitrary
   dithering             palettes and deterministic alpha dithering
                         over layers. Don't ask, it's cool!

   Twain Plugin for      The new Twain plug-in gives you access to
   Win32                 Twain image sources like scanners on Win32
                         platforms.

   Real-life units in    This is more a call for help then a new
   plug-ins              feature. The framework has been there for
                         long, but still most plug-ins ignore
                         real-life units. I have changed the Grid
                         plug-in to make use of the nice widgets that
                         libgimp offers to handle all the unit stuff.
                         The code is heavily commented to make it more
                         easy to copy from it. So if you read this and
                         are a plugin author or you fell you could
                         help anyway, go hack those plug-ins! If you
                         need help, drop me a line.

   JPEG saving with      Not only offers the new JPEG plug-in much
   Preview               more control over the saving parameters, it
                         also shows you what the result will look
                         like.

   More Drag'n'Drop      Support for Dnd is coming along. You can now
                         drag layers from the Layers'n'Channels-dialog
                         to the toolbox to create a new image with
                         only that layer. Or drop the layer on an
                         image to add it to the images layerstack.
                         Also Color DnD is now supported almost
                         everywhere and you can drag brushes and
                         patterns around in the device status dialog.

   Image Pipe            Pixmap brushes were just recently added, but
                         it doesn't end there. Now there's an image
                         pipe. This is a brush that draws with a
                         pixmap out of a list of pixmaps. The pixmap
                         is either choosen randomly or based on cursor
                         direction, pressure or tilt. You'll love it!

   New measure tool      A new tool that allows to measure arbitray
                         distances and angles in an image was added.
                         See a (dumb) screenshot here.

   Image navigation      The new navigation window helps you to
                         navigate through large images. Have a look at
                         it here.

   Scaled brush          The brush selector now scales the brushes so
   previews              that they fit into the preview area. Click
                         here for a screenshot.

   Pixmap brushes        Pixmap brushes are being added. This will
                         allow you to paint with small colored images.

   New Win32 plugin      A new plug-in allows you to copy and paste
                         between different Windoze applications and
                         The GIMP using the clipboard.

   [ New features in version 1.1.8 ]

   Better cubic          The algorithms for the cubic interpolation
   interpolation         for transformation were replaced by faster/
                         better ones.

   Wheel mouse support   Wheel mice are now supported in a variety of
                         Gimp dialogs.

   New Plugins           Sample Colorize and Curve Bend were added to
                         the distribution. Additionally two new
                         plug-ins for the Win32 port were added that
                         allow to print and to take screenshots on Win
                         platforms.

   [ New features in version 1.1.7 ]

   Selection to Path     A new plug-in allows you to convert a
                         selection into an editable bezierpath.

   Drag'n'Drop           You can now drop a file (out of GMC for
                         example) onto the toolbox and The GIMP will
                         try to load it. This also works with URLs
                         (that you can drag out of netscape).

   QuickMask             Finally we have QuickMask in The GIMP. IMHO
                         the UI still needs a little tweak, but it
                         works perfectly as you can see here.

   Paste As New          You can know directly paste the content of
                         the buffer into a new image. Saves a few
                         mouse-clicks.

   Win32 portability     It is now possible to build a fully
                         functioning GIMP on Win32 with free tools
                         only.

   IFS Compose saves     One day you did that wonderful tree with IFS
   and loads             Compose and since then you've never ever
                         managed to get those parameters right again?
                         Now IFS Compose can save and load his
                         settings.

   New tools             Finally the empty holes in the toolbox got
                         filled and we have Dodge and Burn and Smudge
                         tools.

   Help Browser          Work has started on a Help System for The
                         GIMP and the helpbrowser is already done! Now
                         Karin and Olof (authors of The GUM) can start
                         to work on the documentation.

   Image preview cache   Thumbnail previews of an image are now
                         handled in a central place, so that small
                         previews can be computed from larger ones in
                         the cache. Right now this is used in the
                         image-menu (e.g. in the L&C-Dialog), more
                         will follow.

   Tear-off menus        The rumours have come true and while the
                         concept of an active image evolves, tear-off
                         menus sprang to life.

   [ New features in version 1.1.6 ]

   Active image concept  Preliminary code to add an active image
                         concept has been added. So far the first cool
                         thing you get from this is that the
                         Layers-n-Channels-dialog automagically tracks
                         the image you're currently working on.
                         Interesting things will happen here. Tear-off
                         menus are rumoured to appear soon...

   Indicator area        The toolbox has been extended to show the
                         current brush and pattern you are using
                         giving direct access to the related dialogs.
                         This will soon be extended to also show you
                         the current gradient.

   Bug fixes             Bug fixes, bug fixes, bug fixes all over the
                         place. Hopefully not too much new ones were
                         added...

   Colored Curves        Color in the previously greyscale bars to the
   dialog                left and below the curve itself. This still
                         needs to be done for the Levels dialog too.

   New File-New dialog   Yep, another change to the dialog. Hopefully
                         everyone is content with the layout/
                         functionality this time.

   Line draw preview     You do know that you can draw a straight line
                         using the Shift key with the paint tools,
                         don't you? Now you can even position this
                         line precisely using the new line-preview.
                         Unfortunately this is quite buggy right now
                         and absolutely needs to be redone (and I can
                         say this as I've implemented this
                         feature...). UPDATE: This should work now.

   Tile Row Hinting      The image compositing has been speed up by
                         implementing hints to the tile structure.
                         That way the render-engine knows for example
                         if a row is totally transparent and can skip
                         the calculation.

   Waterselect           The waterselect plug-in has been integrated
   color-selector        as a pluggable color-selector module.

   Context cursors       Work has begun on giving better user feedback
                         through context cursors. For example the
                         selection tools now indicate whether you are
                         adding or subtracting the selection by adding
                         a small plus or minus sign to the cursor.

   [ New features in version 1.1.5 ]

   New Scale/Resize UI   The Scale and Resize dialogs have been
                         overworked and it is now possible to change
                         the image resolution interactively.

   OS/2 portability      Lots of changes to make this version of The
                         Gimp compile on OS/2. This is still a work in
                         progress as is the Win32 portability.

   Tool toggles          Tools behaviuor for tools like Flip, Crop,
                         Convolve can be easily toggled on the fly
                         using the Shift key.

   Opaque layer moves    Layer are moved opaque now. That is you don't
                         only see the dashed outline move but the
                         whole content. Helps a lot when positioning
                         layers.

   Per tool paint        This is toggleable in the Preferences and
   options               adds the paintbrush options like Opacity to
                         every tool so you can have different settings
                         for different tools.

   Sample average        The color-picker can now optionally average
   color-picker          the neighborhood of pixels instead only
                         giving you the pixel you click at.

   Speedups              The color-correction functions as well as the
                         histogram functions have been optimized and
                         make use of multi-processor machines.

   Global parasites      Global parasites (arbitrary data attached to
                         the Gimp process) have been there for longer,
                         but now they are saved and can be retrieved
                         through the PDB.

   Tool options          The layout of all tools has changed slightly.
   redesign              They look more uniform, have a nice
                         Reset-button and inactive widgets are greyed
                         about giving better user feedback.

   Crop tool overhaul    The former crop tool is now called Crop &
                         Resize and allows you to interactively resize
                         layers or the image. Autocrop functionality
                         has also been added.

   Interactive Curves    Curves dialog now has interactive feedback.
                         Press and drag the mouse button in the image
                         window and a marker will appear in the curves
                         dialog showing the channel value at that
                         point.

   New plug-ins          New plug-ins were added: Rotate ColorMap
                         allows you to shift ranges of colors to new
                         values much like the way you know it from XV.
                         GDynText has been added and integrated as an
                         optional replacement for the text tool. It
                         allows you to add editable text layers. Oh,
                         it really rocks!!

   PDBgen integration    The PDB (Procedural Database) calls for the
                         gimp functions that allow you to call gimp
                         internals from scripts and plug-ins are now
                         autogenerated using some Perl-magic.

   More work on unit     Support for real-world units is coming along
   support               and is now supported by the gimp core in most
                         of the places where it makes sense.

   [ New features in version 1.1.4 ]

   New plug-ins          Three new plug-ins were added to the
                         distribution: The wmf plug-in loads files of
                         the Windows(tm) metafile file format. GAP,
                         the Gimp Animation Plug-in, gives access to a
                         bunch of functions for working on and
                         creation of animations. The xjt plug-in
                         combines the functionality of the XCF file
                         format with JPEG compression.

   Gradient              The paintbrush can now be configured to use
   brush-strokes         the current gradient as its color-source.
                         This allows for some very nice effects. A
                         not-so-nice one can be seen here.

   User-defined units    The framework for user-defined units has been
                         added. If you like to measure your images in
                         lightyears, you can now do so and the unit
                         definition will be saved with your work in
                         the XCF file.

   Power-user shortcuts  Modifier keys (Shift|Ctrl|Alt) can now be
                         used with the buttons in the L&C-dialog and
                         give quick access to functions like Move
                         Layer to Top and others. Additionally a
                         button for Channel To Selection has been
                         added.

   XCF loading/saving    XCF files do not only load and save much
   speedups              faster, they also compress a little better
                         then before. However full backward
                         compatibilty is preserved.

   More preferences      The preferences dialog is seeing a major
   cosmetic              overhaul. There's a new widget to select
                         directories and recently the dialog has been
                         reordered to use a tree instead of notebook
                         tabs.

   Plug-in updates       A bunch of plug-ins including but not limited
                         to wind, bumpmap, exchange, sharpen and mail
                         have seen bugfixes and/or enhancements.

   [ New features in version 1.1.3 ]

   Paths dialog          The Layers&Channels-dialog now features a new
                         page: Paths. This allows you to conveniently
                         add and remove points from your bezier paths
                         and to save, delete and modify paths.
                         Additionally it is an easy way to crash your
                         Gimp.

   Real-world unit       The integration of real-world units into The
   support               Gimp is going on nicely. The basics are
                         there: You can choose your favorite unit/
                         resolution in the Preferences, use it when
                         creating a new image and the information is
                         displayed in the statusbar.

   Better RGB->Indexed   The box-cut quantizer used in RGB->INDEXED
   conversion            conversion has been revised and should give
                         better results now.

   Win32 merges          Tor Lillqvist started to merge his changes
                         for Win32 into The Gimp source. For more info
                         have a look at the GIMP Win32 page.

   Configurable image    The string that is displayed in the image
   title                 title is now configurable. It can for example
                         show the display zoom factor.

   Perl                  A lot of work has been put into the Perl
                         plugin recently, but as long as I haven't
                         managed to build it on my system, I can't say
                         anything about this...

   [ New features in version 1.1.2 ]

   New plugin:           This new plugin allows you to browse the
   Plugindetails         plugin menu system and helps to find the
                         plug-in you've lost in the menu jungle weeks
                         ago. See it in action here.

   Thumbnails            Gimp now automagically saves xv-compatible
                         thumbnails upon image saves. And of course,
                         the load dialog shows them.

   More fun with Ink     The Ink-tool now allows the user to choose
                         between elliptical, square, and diamond
                         shaped brushes.

   Parallelization       In addition to all the work that's been put
                         into threads, true parallelization is now
                         being added. Choose your number of processors
                         and make The Gimp fly...

   Triangular            Due to the ease of adding new color-selectors
   Color-Selector        via modules, a nice new triangular one has
                         appeared. Have a look at this screenshot.

   [ New features in version 1.1.1 ]

   File->Revert          A function that reverts your image to the
                         version on disk was added.

   Pluggable             There's now the possibility to add
   Color-Selectors       color-selector modules to the Gimp. Next to
                         the standard rectangular one you'll now find
                         the circle that is used for Script-Fu.

   More speed, less      Optimizations using copy-on-write were
   memory                applied to more internal functions to bring
                         you a faster, less memory-consuming Gimp.

   Improved JPEG         The JPEG plugin now handles comments,
   handling              resolution and progressive saving.

   Progress indicators   Most if not all timeintensive core-functions
                         now change the cursor to indicate that gimp
                         is busy and show their progress in the
                         statusbar.

   Tab hides dialogs     Ever wished to get rid of all the dialogs
                         floating around on your screen? Well, with
                         the new version, you press the TAB-key and
                         they go away ... and can be brought back
                         using the TAB-key again.

   Gimp class generator  Well, I'm not sure if I got this right, so
                         here's what Yosh said about it: "[GCG] is
                         autogening that gtk+ class drugdery". Should
                         make coding easier.

   Spiral gradients      A new gradient type was introduced: spiral
                         gradients. Have a look at this small sample.

   Palette dialog        The palette dialog has seen an overhaul.
                         Things haven't settled yet, but the new
                         dialog looks much nicer and, unlike the old
                         one, can handle large amounts of palettes.

   [ New features in version 1.1.0 ]

   XInput support        GIMP now supports special input devices like
                         drawing tablets by default. It depends on the
                         device being supported by your XServer. For
                         example, Wacom drawing tablets are often
                         supported. Support for multiple devices,
                         pressure and tilt sensitivity is slowly being
                         added to all paint tools.

   Ink tool              A nice new toy that really comes to life if
                         you have an extended input device as
                         described above. Have a look at this
                         screenshot.

   'File New' dialog     The New Image dialog allows the use of real
                         life units like centimeters and inches along
                         with a resolution entry. Have a look at this
                         screenshot.

   Hex display           A small but nifty feature was added to the
                         Color Picker: It now displays the HEX triplet
                         of the selected color. Useful for WEB
                         artists.

   Popup button          The small rectangle between the rulers in the
                         upper left corner of the image window now
                         gives access to the menu. Usefule for people
                         with tablets or two-button mice.

   Statusbar             The image display now has a statusbar.
                         Plug-ins write their progress there and your
                         mouse coordinates are also displayed. Most
                         tools use it too. The Selection tool, for
                         example, shows the selection size while you
                         drag. Have a look at this screenshot. And
                         don't worry, it's possible to hide the
                         statusbar to save screen estate.

   GUI enhancements      Lots of nifty enhancements to the user
                         interface. Spinbuttons are used in a lot of
                         places. More stuff like that has to be added
                         in the future...

   Session management    GIMP remembers window positions and sizes
                         (eeek, not working currently, but its almost
                         there) and restores them on startup.

   Selections            New algorithms are now used to grow and
                         shrink the selection. The result looks much
                         better!

   PDB interface         A lot more internal functions are now
                         exported to the PDB. For example, this should
                         allow the GIMP Animation Plugin to work
                         without changes to the GIMP core.

   Better tile-caching   Tiles are now more intelligently cached and a
                         threaded process tries to swap out dirty
                         tiles before you run out of physical memory.
                         (Hmm, have I got this right? IIRC, there's a
                         thread to swap in stuff ahead of the time,
                         too.)

   Copy On Write         The MAD-COW patches that appeared too late to
                         get integrated into GIMP-1.0 are now
                         integrated. And...its FASTER!!

   Document Index        The document index keeps track of the images
                         you used with The GIMP. You can even drag in
                         an image from a file-manager (GNOME MC for
                         example).

   Editable Brushes      Well, editable brushes still need some work,
                         but the basics are there...

   Fixed size            The size or the aspect ratio of selections
   selections            can now be entered numerically as well.

   Script-Fu interface   The Script-Fu dialog now allows a whole bunch
   improvements          of entry widgets, like selectors for fonts,
                         brushes, gradients and patterns. Strings can
                         be entered without the nasty quotes and
                         numerical entries can use sliders and
                         spinbuttons. Have a look at this screenshot.
                         Most of the scripts were already updated.

   Quick Reference       The Quick Reference sheet looks much better
                         and holds more information. A must-have for
                         your desktop.

   Transform Tool UI     The user interface for the Transform tool has
                         seen a major overhaul. It now offers a new
                         'Corrective' mode that for example makes it
                         easy to correct slightly rotated scans. Have
                         a look at this screenshot.

   Color representation  GIMP now uses GdkRGB to provide better
                         dithering for non truecolor displays. This
                         should also speed GIMP up a bit.

   Parasites             Arbitrary data can be attached to an image
                         and be retrieved later. (Is this already
                         saved in the XCF file? I think not...)

   Tatoos                A unique stamp can be attached to drawables.
                         That way a plug-in can easily keep track of
                         layers.

   Dialogs               A few dialogs can now be controlled via the
                         PDB. That allows a plug-in to use the
                         internal dialogs to select brushes, patterns
                         and gradients.

   Idle-Renderer         Display re-rendering is now handled in an
                         interruptible asynchronous thread. This makes
                         The GIMP more responsive, especially when
                         working with the Layers-dialog.

   Resolution support    Each image now has a resolution associated
                         with it. This needs to be integrated better
                         into the GUI, but there are already a few
                         file plug-ins that make use of this.

   GimpPerl              The GIMP-Perl extension is now part of
                         GIMP-1.1.

   Monitor resolution    The image can now be displayed in float scale
                         factrors. If GIMP knows about your monitor
                         resolution it displays one inch as one inch.
                         Still needs some work...

   Help in the DB        The DB Browser now also display the help that
   Browser               is available for a lot of functions in the
                         PDB.

   Internationalization  National Language Support is coming!

   New plug-ins          Various new plug-ins were added. More have
                         appeared in the Registry and wait to be added
                         or updated. A few nice ones that are now
                         included:

                           * WaterSelect - a nifty way to select
                             colors
                           * NewsPrint - whee, you have to see that
                           * Guillotine - slices the image up along
                             its guides

   Internals             Lots of changes were made to GIMP internals
                         that I don't understand correctly, like
                         objectification and removal of the image ID
                         system. Read the ChangeLog yourself to figure
                         this out.

   GTK+ compatibilty     GIMP 1.1 makes use of the development version
                         of GTK+. Therefore a whole lot of work has
                         been put in following the GTK+ development
                         and keeping The GIMP in sync.

   Plug-ins and Scripts  Various plug-ins and scripts not mentioned
                         above have been updated or fixed to work with
                         changes in the GIMP core or GTK+. One day I
                         might add a list of all changed plug-ins to
                         this list...

   Miscellaneous           * The painting functions (brush, pencil,
                             airbrush, etc.) have been optimized.
                           * The GAP plugin, which has some essential
                             animation features, is being integrated
                             into GIMP.
                           * The font selector has been redesigned.
                           * The new, slightly incomplete MAINTAINERS
                             file should help track responsibility and
                             expertise for various parts of The GIMP.


Copyright 1998-2000 by Sven Neumann <sven@gimp.org>
